Max age policy tutorial (#580)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/chainguard-enforce-kubernetes/maximum-image-age-policy.md

---
title: "Limit the “Build Horizon” of Build Artifacts with the Maximum Image Age Policy"
type: "article"
description: "Understanding Identity and Access Management in Chainguard Enforce"
date: 2023-10-04T15:22:20+01:00
lastmod: 2023-10-04T15:22:20+01:00
draft: false
images: []
tags: ["policy-controller", "Policies", "Enforce", "Product"]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "chainguard-enforce-kubernetes"

> weight: 100

Reviewer: Can you increase the weight so it is lower in the page? I would look at what weight the other policy tutorials have

toc: true
---

The age of your build artifacts can have serious maintenance and security implications for your Kubernetes workloads. Stale software incurs technical debt and is often more likely to contain vulnerabilities that can put your workloads at risk. Additionally, as we discuss in our article [The Principle of Ephemerality](https://www.chainguard.dev/unchained/the-principle-of-ephemerality), refreshing your build artifacts frequently makes it difficult for an attacker to maintain a toehold in your software should they successfully breach your build system without your knowledge.

> The importance of freshness applies to a range of software, such as “off-the-shelf” components like monitoring tools, dependencies you compile into your software like base images, and the software you develop and maintain yourself. That said, tracking the age of every piece of software you use in your workloads can be a daunting task. As [even Chainguard’s own security-focused engineers discovered](https://www.chainguard.dev/unchained/conquer-your-build-horizon-with-chainguard-enforce-in-2023), stale software can slip through the cracks despite best efforts.

Reviewer: Can we soften the last sentence? I think most people may not read the blog and may assume something negative

Author: ah, good point! yes, softening the sentence!

## Maximum Image Age Policy

> One way to address this problem is to impose a “build horizon” on software artifacts. Coined at Google, a build horizon refers to the maximum age allowed for build artifacts. Here at Chainguard, we’ve created a Maximum Image Age policy that automatically checks the age of build artifacts in your Kubernetes workloads. You can use this policy to fail images or raise warnings based on their age.

Reviewer: The personal language seems a little casual for docs but if you feel strongly about it maybe we should think about "solutions" style

```suggestion
One way to address this problem is to impose a “build horizon” on software artifacts. A term first coined at Google, a _build horizon_ refers to the maximum age allowed for build artifacts. The Maximum Image Age policy, compatible with Chainguard Enforce and Sigstore, automatically checks the age of build artifacts in your Kubernetes workloads. You can use this policy to fail images or raise warnings based on their age.
```

Author: I like your suggestion -- I'll stick with the formal language for solution docs in the future.

> Written in rego (to take advantage of rego’s time functions), this policy imposes a maximum age of 30 days on all images and can be customized for other age limits. The age is measured using the container image's configuration, which has a "created" field. Note that some build tools may fail this check because they build reproducibly, and use a fixed date (e.g. the Unix epoch) as their creation time, but many of these tools support specifying SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH, which aligns the creation time with the date of the source commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Written in [Rego](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/chainguard-enforce-kubernetes/chainguard-enforce-rego-policies/) (to take advantage of Rego’s time functions), this policy imposes a maximum age of 30 days on all images and can be customized for other age limits. The age is measured using the container image's configuration, which has a "created" field. Note that some build tools may fail this check because they build reproducibly, and use a fixed date (such as the Unix epoch) as their creation time, but many of these tools support specifying `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH`, which aligns the creation time with the date of the source commit.
```

      reproducibly, and use a fixed date (e.g. the Unix epoch)
      as their creation time, but many of these tools support
      specifying SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH, which aligns the creation
      time with the date of the source commit.

    catalog.chainguard.dev/labels: rego
spec:
  images: [{ glob: "**" }]
  authorities: [{ static: { action: pass } }]
  mode: warn
  policy:
    fetchConfigFile: true
    type: "rego"
    data: |
      package sigstore

      nanosecs_per_second = 1000 * 1000 * 1000
      nanosecs_per_day = 24 * 60 * 60 * nanosecs_per_second

      # Change this to the maximum number of days to allow.
      maximum_age = 30 * nanosecs_per_day

      isCompliant[response] {
        created := time.parse_rfc3339_ns(input.config[_].created)

        response := {
          "result" : time.now_ns() < created + maximum_age,
          "error" : "Image exceeds maximum allowed age."
        }
      }
```

You can use this policy freely with the open source [Sigstore policy-controller](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/sigstore/policy-controller/how-to-install-policy-controller) to block new deployments of images based on their age.

> However, the Maximum Image Age Policy is particularly useful for monitoring the age of artifacts that are _already admitted_ in your workloads. If you are looking for a way to continuously enforce the Maximum Image Age Policy on _all_ existing images in your Kubernetes workloads, you can use Chainguard Enforce. With Chainguard Enforce, all of your images will be continuously evaluated against this policy, even if they passed the policy when initially admitted. You can set Enforce to send a notification (e.g. post to slack, open a github issue) if and when a deployed image falls out of compliance so that corrective action may be taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the Maximum Image Age Policy is particularly useful for monitoring the age of artifacts that are _already admitted_ in your workloads. If you are searching for a way to continuously enforce the Maximum Image Age Policy on _all_ existing images in your Kubernetes workloads, you can use Chainguard Enforce. With Chainguard Enforce, all of your images will be continuously evaluated against this policy, even if they passed the policy when initially admitted. You can set Enforce to send a notification (including posting to Slack, or opening a GitHub issue) if and when a deployed image falls out of compliance so that corrective action may be taken.
```

> If you’re interested in learning more about Chainguard Enforce, you can request access to the product by selecting Chainguard Enforce for Kubernetes on the [inquiry form](https://www.chainguard.dev/contact).

Reviewer: Let's add referral

```suggestion
If you’re interested in learning more about Chainguard Enforce, you can request access to the product by selecting Chainguard Enforce for Kubernetes on the [inquiry form](https://www.chainguard.dev/contact?utm_source=docs).
```
